Updated Switch Transformers model card with standardized format (Issue #36979) (#39305)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/model_doc/switch_transformers.md

-->

<div style="float: right;">
    <div class="flex flex-wrap space-x-1">
        <img alt="PyTorch" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-2.0+-red?logo=pytorch&logoColor=white">

>         <img alt="TensorFlow" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/TensorFlow-2.0+-orange?logo=tensorflow&logoColor=white">
>         <img alt="Transformers" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/🤗%20Transformers-4.0+-blue">

Reviewer: This should only have the PyTorch badge

```suggestion
```

    </div>
</div>

# Switch Transformers

> [Switch Transformers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2101.03961) is a Mixture of Experts (MoE) model trained on Masked Language Modeling (MLM) tasks. The model architecture builds upon the classic T5 encoder-decoder framework, but replaces the traditional Feed Forward layers with **Sparse MLP layers containing "experts"** for improved efficiency and scaling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Switch Transformers](https://huggingface.co/papers/2101.03961) is a sparse T5 model where the MLP layer is replaced by a Mixture-of-Experts (MoE). A routing mechanism associates each token with an expert and each expert is a dense MLP. Sparsity enables better scaling and the routing mechanism allows the model to select relevant weights on the fly which increases model capacity.
```

<ins>Key Features</ins>

- **Sparse Expert Routing**: Uses a learned routing mechanism to selectively activate only a subset of experts per token
- **Scalable Architecture**: Enables training larger models with the same computational budget
- **T5-Compatible**: Maintains compatibility with T5 tokenizer and generation methods
- **Efficient Inference**: Activates only a fraction of parameters during inference

Switch Transformers come in different sizes:

- **switch-base-8**: 8 experts, ~223M parameters
- **switch-base-16**: 16 experts, ~415M parameters  
- **switch-base-32**: 32 experts, ~799M parameters
- **switch-base-64**: 64 experts, ~1.6B parameters

> You can find all the original Switch Transformers checkpoints under the [Switch Transformers](https://huggingface.co/collections/google/switch-transformers-65f9e0b4e3f5b0af6f4dbc6c) collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find all the original Switch Transformers checkpoints under the [Switch Transformer](https://huggingface.co/collections/google/switch-transformers-release-6548c35c6507968374b56d1f) collection.
```

> [!TIP]
> This model was contributed by [Younes Belkada](https://huggingface.co/ybelkada) and [Arthur Zucker](https://huggingface.co/ArthurZ).
>
> Click on the Switch Transformers models in the right sidebar for more examples of how to apply Switch Transformers to different natural language tasks.

> The example below demonstrates how to do Masked Language Modeling with the [`Pipeline`] and the [`AutoModel`] classes, or with `transfomer-cli`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below demonstrates how to predict the masked token with [`Pipeline`], [`AutoModel`], and from the command line.
```

<hfoptions id="usage">
<hfoption id="Pipeline">

> ```python

Reviewer: ```py
import torch
from transformers import pipeline

pipeline = pipeline(
    task="text2text-generation", 
    model="google/switch-base-8",
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
    device=0
)
pipeline("The capital of France is <extra_id_0>.")
```

    return_tensors="pt"
).input_ids

# Generate output
outputs = model.generate(
    input_ids, 
    max_length=50, 
    num_beams=4, 
    early_stopping=True
)
result = tokenizer.decode(
    outputs[0], 
    skip_special_tokens=True
)
print(result)  
# Paris.
```

</hfoption>
<hfoption id="transformers CLI">

```bash
echo -e "The capital of France is <extra_id_0>." | transformers run --task text2text-generation --model google/switch-base-8 --device 0
# [{'generated_text': 'Paris.'}]
```

</hfoption>
</hfoptions>

Quantization reduces the memory burden of large models by representing the weights in a lower precision. Refer to the [Quantization](../quantization/overview) overview for more available quantization backends.

The example below uses [bitsandbytes](https://huggingface.co/docs/bitsandbytes/v0.46.0/index) to only quantize the weights to int8.

```py
# pip install bitsandbytes
import torch
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM, BitsAndBytesConfig

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("google/switch-base-8")

# Define the quantization configuration using BitsAndBytesConfig
quantization_config = BitsAndBytesConfig(
    load_in_8bit=True
)

> model = AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM.from_pretrained(

Reviewer: Align the rest of this code example with the one from the `AutoModel` example.

- **Dataset**: C4 (Colossal Clean Crawled Corpus)
- **Optimization**: Expert-specific load balancing and auxiliary losses
- **Scaling**: Increased number of experts while maintaining computational efficiency

### Tips and Recommendations

> [!TIP]
> **Memory Considerations**: Switch Transformers can be memory-intensive due to the multiple expert layers. Consider using smaller variants (switch-base-8) for resource-constrained environments.

> [!TIP]
> **Inference Optimization**: Only a subset of experts are activated during inference, making the model more efficient than dense alternatives of similar quality.

> [!TIP]
> **Fine-tuning**: When fine-tuning Switch Transformers, be aware that the routing mechanism may need adjustment. Consider using lower learning rates for the router parameters.

> [!TIP]
> **Tokenizer Compatibility**: Switch Transformers use the same tokenizer as T5, so existing T5 preprocessing pipelines can be directly applied.

> [!WARNING]
> **Expert Utilization**: Monitor expert utilization during training to ensure balanced load distribution. Unbalanced expert usage can lead to reduced model performance.

## Resources

> - **[All Switch Transformers Checkpoints](https://huggingface.co/models?filter=switch-transformers)**: Browse available model variants
> - **[Mixture of Experts Guide](https://huggingface.co/blog/moe)**: Learn more about MoE architectures
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
